# missing-data-analysis
Examination of model sensitivity to different senarios of missingness using bagging (bootstrap) of multilevel models.

# Draft

In the missing data analysis, I first examine the predictors of missingness, then conduct multiple imputation for missing data under lower and higher scenarios. Once lower and higher score scenarios were generated, I refit a schooling model in each scenario to examine deviations from the findings based on the complete cases analysis.

There were no missingness on health adversity or dropout status in the original sample. About 10.8 percent of the analytic sample had missing data on math scores. The model shows that children that dropped out of school, those from rural areas, poor children, and those from uneducated mothers were more likely to have missing math scores. 

A linear model predicting math scores was fit and predicted scores were obtained for missing observations under the assumption that observations were missing at random. Then, the predicted scores of missing cases were modified by a sensitivity parameter lambda (ᴧ). Final math scores for missing cases were generated by adding to their predicted score a multiple of lambda and the standard deviation of the math scores from the observed cases. In both cases, I multiplied these values by ᴧ values of -3, -2, -1, 0, +1, +2, and +3. When ᴧ is zero, one gets the value of the missing cases under the missing at random (MAR) assumption. In the rest of the cases, one gets estimates under the not missing at random (NMAR) assumption. Bootstrap procedure was used to incorporate randomness to the imputed models. Final estimates of model coefficients were obtained by taking the mean of the coefficient estimates from the re-sampling procedure where community fixed effects models were fit on 2000 random samples with replacement. P-values were obtained from z-scores generated by dividing the mean of the bootstrap coefficients by their standard deviation, with normal approximation.
